## Dynamic Programming

Dynamic Programming is a problem solving technique in computer science and mathematics. Solve the complex problem by breaking them down into simpler subproblem. It is useful for optimization problems, where the goal is to find the best solution among many possible ones.

#### Key concepts
- Overlapping Subproblem: when a problem can be divided into subporoblems that are reused multiple times. Instead of solving the same subproblem repeatedly, DP solves each subproblem once and stores the result for future reference.

- Optimal Substructure: Optimal solution to the problem can be constructed from the optimal solution of its subproblems. If a problem has an optimal substructure, dynamic programming can be applied.

- Implementation: top-down approach (memoization) / bottom-up approach

Knapsack Problem

You have a knapsack with a maximum weight capacity 𝑊. You are given a list of n items, where each item 
𝑖 has: A weight 𝑤_i and A value v_i
​

The objective is to determine the combination of items that maximizes the total value without exceeding the weight capacity of the knapsack.

0/1 Knapsack Problem: Each item can either be included in the knapsack or excluded (i.e., you cannot include a fraction of an item).

Fractional Knapsack Problem: You can include fractions of an item in the knapsack.

0/1 Knapsack Problem

example:

capacity W = 50
1. w_1 = 10, v_1 = 60
2. w_2 = 20, v_2 = 100
3. w_3 = 30, v_3 = 120

Dynamic Programming Approach:

bottom up solution
- subproblem: let define dp[i][w] represent max value that can be obtained with first i items and a knapsack capacity of w.

- recursive formula
dp[i][w] = max(dp[i-1][w], dp[i-1][w-w_i] + v_i)

dp[i-1][w] is the max value without including the ith item
dp[i-1][w-w_i] + v_i is the max value including the ith item, if it fits

i = 3
w = 50

- base case: for i = 0 or w = 0, dp[i][w] = 0
- final result is in dp[3][50]

Sample implementation
```python
def knapsack(values, weights, capacity):
    n = len(values)
    
    # Create a 2D DP array to store the maximum value at each n and capacity
    dp = [[0 for x in range(capacity + 1)] for y in range(n + 1)]

    # Build the DP table
    for i in range(1, n + 1):
        for w in range(1, capacity + 1):
            if weights[i-1] <= w:
                dp[i][w] = max(dp[i-1][w], dp[i-1][w-weights[i-1]] + values[i-1])
            else:
                dp[i][w] = dp[i-1][w]
    
    # The maximum value that can be obtained is in dp[n][capacity]
    return dp[n][capacity]


values = [60, 100, 120]
weights = [10, 20, 30]
capacity = 50

max_value = knapsack(values, weights, capacity)
print(f"The maximum value that can be obtained is: {max_value}")
```